I started playing a game I found the other day called Vampire Survivors (just gonna call it Survivors or 'the game' for brevity). It seems really campy and simple at the start.

It's played on PC with the wasd keys to move around. That's it. Clicking holds you in place which is almost completely useless. The only other control is to click to select options and escape to pause.
Each character starts out with a different tool and buff, however these don't really matter much as the game goes on. All of your attacks are on an automatic timer and their effectiveness is usually based on your positioning. For example the wip will make a large slice horizontally in the direction of your movement, or the dagger will shoot out where you are moving to. Enemies are slow and usually weak, but numerous. You have *very* little health. Touching enemies hurts you rapidly. The game ends up becoming this sort of dance as you guide and kite a hoard behind you, positioning yourself to get hits off without touching anything. Enemies have a chance to drop gems on death, which let you level up and get upgrades like protection or new positioning-based weapons. Hitting environment props like braziers can drop you coins which allow you to get new characters or get permanent upgrades to future runs of the game. You can also get food to heal you or temporary power ups from these props. You will also rarely find treasure chests which give you a random number of items and a boat-load of coins. These are how you progress rapidly. I've only just unlocked the second map, which is a tight hallway in a library that seems to stretch on forever, in which I found a unique unlock which showed me weapon/item combos that can potentially give you evolved weapons, although I haven't gotten any yet myself. The game just seems to keep unraveling and revealing more of its secrets. Although the game only has 2 modes of input: movement and selection, it never shows its full hand and creates a sort of dance, where you must predict or expect random events that may kill a run like a ring of indestructible plants where you have to survive for a set time, or waves of killer bats flying at mach speed out the blue. The game is very dynamic, replayable, surprising, and fun.
